I"‹<p>Deep learning and machine learning are the building blocks of AI; this advancement often ignites a thought in everybody‚Äôs mind, i.e., man versus machine. Is this a competition or a collaboration between us and the race that we have created? What do you think awaits us, humans? How are we connected to this human-made civilization, and what is AI?</p>

<p>AI is nothing but a computer program of a higher order that can mimic or simulate cognitive behaviors or traits associated with human intelligence such as reasoning, problem-solving, and learning. We, as humans or creators, have to try to establish an equilibrium between ourselves and this species of humanoid bots that we have created. It is very evident that in today‚Äôs world, the benefits of AI far exceed its negatives but for how long. There ‚Äòmight‚Äô come a time wherein this civilization can take over the human civilization with its capacity to re-design itself and evolve faster than biological evolution. Depending on how and if we use it, the future of employment and the human workforce can be potentially transformed or disrupted by AI as it rapidly develops, enabling robots and machines to perform the tasks that humans do. This is fine as long this race empowers us. We should turn our technological advancements into stepping stones rather than stumbling blocks. This emerging technological advancement raises the question: where do humans fit themselves in this equation?</p>

<p>Currently, AI finds its application in three kinds of tasks: Formal Tasks - Tasks which require logic and constraints to function (mathematics, games, verification). Mundane tasks - Routine everyday tasks that require common sense reasoning (vision, robotics, natural language, speech). Expert tasks - Tasks which require high analytical and thinking skills, a job only professionals can do (financial analysis, medical diagnostics, engineering, scientific analysis, consulting). AI must be used for repetitive tasks that are defined by a precise boundary and shouldn‚Äôt be involved in tasks requiring intuition and decision making skills.</p>

<p>These applications have made it easy for humans to focus on high-level tasks while the bots take over the others. The ever-increasing efficiency of these robots has made us think about situations like job shredding and employment elimination. One of the significant advantages we have over AI is our cognitive ability, or our ability to provide perspective, deliver judgment, and adapt or accept social skills. We can also take ownership of our expertise and creativity in the field as compared to AI. We must ensure that automating parts of a job will often increase the productivity and quality of workers by complementing their skills with machines and computers, as well as enabling them to focus on those aspects of the job that most need their attention. People need to focus on re-designing and re-engineering the business process.</p>

<p>The key to success in this emerging environment is to be able to capitalize on AI capabilities to deliver more value to their products. Humans must try to find more opportunities and take a leadership role in monitoring the ethics of the AI offered business. In this way, jobs will be reformed, refined, and enriched by humans and AI. We must complement each other and not worry about AI wiping out the human race in this competition of ‚Äúsurvival of the fittest.‚Äù Humans and AI must develop a symbiotic relationship to ensure a future that will build together and not fall apart.</p>
:ET